Update the "Locking and syncing" page (#11647)
astral-sh/uv: docs/concepts/projects/sync.md

[lockfile](./layout.md#the-lockfile). Syncing is the process of installing a subset of packages from
the lockfile into the [project environment](./layout.md#the-project-environment).

## Automatic lock and sync

Locking and syncing are _automatic_ in uv. For example, when `uv run` is used, the project is locked
and synced before invoking the requested command. This ensures the project environment is always
up-to-date. Similarly, commands which read the lockfile, such as `uv tree`, will automatically
update it before running.

To disable automatic locking, use the `--locked` option:

```console
$ uv run --locked ...
```

If the lockfile is not up-to-date, an error will be raised instead of updating the lockfile.

To use the lockfile without checking if it is up-to-date, use the `--frozen` option:

```console
$ uv run --frozen ...
```

Similarly, to run a command without checking if the environment is up to date, use the `--no-sync`
option:

```console
$ uv run --no-sync ...
```

## Checking if the lockfile is up-to-date

When considering if the lockfile is up-to-date, uv will check if it matches the project metadata.

> For example, if add a dependency to your `pyproject.toml`, the `uv.lock` will be outdated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you add a dependency to your `pyproject.toml`, the `uv.lock` will be outdated.
```

uv will not consider lockfiles outdated when new versions of packages are released — the lockfile

> needs to be explicitly updated to

Reviewer: (dangling sentence; but presuming due to this being a draft)

You can check if the lockfile is up-to-date by passing the `--check` flag to `uv lock`:

```console
$ uv lock --check
```

This is equivalent to the `--locked` flag for other commands.

## Creating the lockfile

While the lockfile is created [automatically](#automatic-lock-and-sync), the lockfile may also be
explicitly created or updated using `uv lock`:

```console
$ uv lock
```

## Syncing the environment

While the environment is synced [automatically](#automatic-lock-and-sync), it may also be explicitly
synced using `uv sync`:

```console
$ uv sync
```

Syncing the environment manually is especially useful for ensuring your editor has the correct
versions of dependencies.

### Editable installation

When the environment is synced, uv will install the project (and other workspace members) as
_editable_ packages. This means a re-sync is not necessary for changes to be reflected in the
environment.

To opt-out of this behavior, use the `--no-editable` option.

!!! note

>     If the project is not define a build system, it will not be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the project does not define a build system, it will not be installed.
```

# Locking and syncing

Locking is the process of resolving your project's dependencies into a
[lockfile](./layout.md#the-lockfile). Syncing is the process of installing a subset of packages from
the lockfile into the [project environment](./layout.md#the-project-environment).

## Automatic lock and sync

Locking and syncing are _automatic_ in uv. For example, when `uv run` is used, the project is locked
and synced before invoking the requested command. This ensures the project environment is always
up-to-date. Similarly, commands which read the lockfile, such as `uv tree`, will automatically
update it before running.

> To disable automatic locking, use the `--locked` option:

Reviewer 2: Should this be `--frozen`?

Reviewer 2: Nevermind.

```console
$ uv run --locked ...
```

If the lockfile is not up-to-date, an error will be raised instead of updating the lockfile.

To use the lockfile without checking if it is up-to-date, use the `--frozen` option:

```console
$ uv run --frozen ...
```

Similarly, to run a command without checking if the environment is up-to-date, use the `--no-sync`
option:

```console
$ uv run --no-sync ...
```

## Checking if the lockfile is up-to-date

When considering if the lockfile is up-to-date, uv will check if it matches the project metadata.
For example, if you add a dependency to your `pyproject.toml`, the lockfile will be outdated.
Similarly, if you change the version constraints for a dependency such that the locked version is

> excluded, the lockfile will be outdated. However, if you change the version constraints such that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
excluded, the lockfile will be considered outdated. However, if you change the version constraints such that
```

the existing locked version is still included, the lockfile will still be considered up-to-date.

You can check if the lockfile is up-to-date by passing the `--check` flag to `uv lock`:

```console
$ uv lock --check
```

This is equivalent to the `--locked` flag for other commands.

!!! important

    uv will not consider lockfiles outdated when new versions of packages are released — the lockfile
    needs to be explicitly updated if you want to upgrade dependencies. See the documentation on
    [upgrading locked package versions](#upgrading-locked-package-versions) for details.

## Creating the lockfile

> While the lockfile is created [automatically](#automatic-lock-and-sync), the lockfile may also be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the lockfile is created [automatically](#automatic-lock-and-sync) via `uv run`, the lockfile may also be
```

Author: And `uv sync` and `uv tree` etc.? I don't think I want to specify that here

explicitly created or updated using `uv lock`:

```console
$ uv lock
```

## Syncing the environment

> While the environment is synced [automatically](#automatic-lock-and-sync), it may also be explicitly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the environment is synced [automatically](#automatic-lock-and-sync) via `uv run`, it may also be explicitly
```

synced using `uv sync`:

```console
$ uv sync
```

Syncing the environment manually is especially useful for ensuring your editor has the correct
versions of dependencies.

### Editable installation

When the environment is synced, uv will install the project (and other workspace members) as

> _editable_ packages. This means a re-sync is not necessary for changes to be reflected in the
> environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_editable_ packages, such that re-syncing is not necessary for changes to be reflected in the
environment.
```

    the `main` branch, uv will prefer the locked commit SHA in an existing `uv.lock` file over
    the latest commit on the `main` branch, unless the `--upgrade` or `--upgrade-package` flags
    are used.

These flags can also be provided to `uv sync` or `uv run` to update the lockfile _and_ the
environment.

## Exporting the lockfile

> If you need to integrate uv with other tools or workflows, you can export `uv.lock` to

Reviewer: (though the existing wording possibly also correct?)

```suggestion
If you need to integrate uv with other tools or workflows, you can export `uv.lock` to the
```
